add ETH metadata description (#15)
Nerolation/EIP-ERC-721-Stealth-Addresses: eip-5564.md

## Abstract

This specification establishes a standardized method for interacting with stealth addresses, which allow senders of transactions or transfers to non-interactively generate private accounts exclusively accessible by their recipients. Moreover, this specification enables developers to create stealth address protocols based on the foundational implementation outlined in this EIP, utilizing a singleton contract to emit the necessary information for recipients. In addition to the base implementation, this ERC also outlines the first implementation of a cryptographic scheme, specifically the SECP256k1 curve.

## Motivation

> The standardization of non-interactive stealth address generation presents the potential to significantly improve the privacy capabilities of the Ethereum network by allowing recipients to remain private when receiving assets. This is accomplished through the sender generating a stealth address based on a shared secret known exclusively to the sender and recipient. The recipients alone can access the funds stored at their stealth addresses, as they are the sole possessors of the necessary private keys. As a result, observers are unable to associate the recipient's stealth address with their identity, thereby preserving the recipient's privacy and leaving the sender as the only party privy to this information. By offering a foundational implementation in the form of a single contract that is compatible with multiple cryptographic schemes, recipients are granted a centralized location to monitor, ensuring they do not overlook any incoming transactions.

Reviewer: two small suggestions here
```suggestion
The standardization of non-interactive stealth address generation presents the potential to significantly improve the privacy capabilities of the Ethereum network and other EVM-compatible chains by allowing recipients to remain private when receiving assets. This is accomplished through the sender generating a stealth address based on a shared secret known exclusively to the sender and recipient. The recipients alone can access the funds stored at their stealth addresses, as they are the sole possessors of the necessary private key. As a result, observers are unable to associate the recipient's stealth address with their identity, thereby preserving the recipient's privacy and leaving the sender as the only party privy to this information. By offering a foundational implementation in the form of a single contract that is compatible with multiple cryptographic schemes, recipients are granted a centralized location to monitor, ensuring they do not overlook any incoming transactions.
```

  /// Besides the view tag, the metadata can be used by the senders however they like, 
  /// but the below guidelines are recommended:
  /// The first byte of the metadata MUST be the view tag.
  /// - When sending the native token of the blockchain (cf. ETH), the metadata SHOULD be structured as follows:
  ///     - Byte 1 MUST be the view tag, as specified above.

>   ///     - Bytes 2-5 are arbitrary bytes (e.g. 0xdeadbeef).

Reviewer: Should we just remove this for the native token case? It feels unnecessary. Or we can make it another 4 bytes of e's

Author: I'm happy to remove the method ID, however, since there's place for it without reaching 32 bytes, it may help parsing providers by not having them to implement a separate "parse_metadata()" for Eth transactions compared to ERCs.

Reviewer: That's true. So now I'd say we do either four more bytes of e's, OR use the transfer selector that we use for tokens

Author: I also thought about the transfer selector, but actually the method id will then not be found in the transaction so it should probably be a method id that isn't used anywhere.
I'm just thinking of implementing that on the parsing side: If we use the transfer method, there could be parsing providers indicating a ERC-20 transfer if they don't have some logic that says "if the token address is 0xeee then ignore the method id". If we provide an invalid methodID this is more clear, I guess.

I'd more prefer an invalid method id, so fine with both, 0xeee.. or deafbeef, or even 0x00000000 if that works.

  ///     - Bytes 6-25 are the address 0xEeeeeEeeeEeEeeEeEeEeeEEEeeeeEeeeeeeeEEeE.
  ///     - Bytes 26-57 are the amount of ETH being sent.
  /// - When sending ERC-20 tokens, the metadata SHOULD be structured as follows:
  ///   - Byte 1 MUST be the view tag, as specified above.

>   ///   - Bytes 2-5 are the method Id, which the hash of the canonical representation of the function to call.

Reviewer: We use the approve selector below, so we probably should have this also?
```suggestion
  ///   - Bytes 2-5 are 0xa9059cbb, which the signature for the ERC-20 transfer method
```

Reviewer: Similarly for the ERC-721 section, maybe we should use the `transferFrom` sig of `0x23b872dd` (ERC-721 has no `transfer` method)? 

Alternatively we could change all of this to the first 4 bytes of the transfer and approve event signatures instead?

Author: You're right, but I wouldn't reduce it to transfers and approvals, but instead keep it open for any kind of interaction. So that even a mint to a stealth address can be signaled.

So, I'd prefer keeping the method id.

Author: Yo @mds1, I've tried to generalize it more such that we only have to differentiate between native tokens and tokens from standards (ERC-20, ERC-721, ect.).

Let me know what you think about it.

Reviewer: maybe we update this bullet to this? pulled the definition from the solidity docs so it's unambiguous
```suggestion
  ///   - Bytes 2-5 are a function identifier. When a function selector (e.g.
  ///     the first (left, high-order in big-endian) four bytes of the Keccak-256
  ///     hash of the signature of the function, like Solidity and Vyper use) is
  ///     available, it MUST be used.
```

  /// Besides the view tag, the metadata can be used by the senders however they like, 
  /// but the below guidelines are recommended:
  /// The first byte of the metadata MUST be the view tag.
  /// - When sending/interacting with the native token of the blockchain (cf. ETH), the metadata SHOULD be structured as follows:
  ///     - Byte 1 MUST be the view tag, as specified above.

>   ///     - Bytes 2-5 are arbitrary bytes (e.g. 0xEeeeeEee).

Reviewer: hmm why arbitrary? should we be more prescriptive here?
```suggestion
  ///     - Bytes 2-5 are `0xeeeeeeee`
```

  ///     - Bytes 6-25 are the address 0xEeeeeEeeeEeEeeEeEeEeeEEEeeeeEeeeeeeeEEeE.
  ///     - Bytes 26-57 are the amount of ETH being sent.
  /// - When interacting with ERC-20/ERC-721/etc. tokens, the metadata SHOULD be structured as follows:
  ///   - Byte 1 MUST be the view tag, as specified above.
  ///   - Bytes 2-5 are the method Id, which the hash of the canonical representation of the function to call.
  ///   - Bytes 6-25 are the token contract address.

>   ///   - Bytes 26-57 are the amount of tokens being sent/interacted with.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  ///   - Bytes 26-57 are the amount of tokens being sent/interacted with for fungible tokens, or
  ///     the token ID for non-fungible tokens.
```

  }
}
```

> The `ERC5564Messenger` contract inherits the `StakeManager` contract allowing users to stake ETH that it uses as an anti-DoS measure. More details in the ... section.

Reviewer: (I may not have done the hyperlink correctly)
```suggestion
The `ERC5564Messenger` contract inherits the `StakeManager` contract allowing users to stake ETH that is used as an anti-DoS measure. More details in the [DoS Countermeasures](#DoS-Countermeasures) section.
```

### Stealth meta-address format

> The new address format for the stealth meta-address is based on [ERC-3770](./eip-3770.md) and extends it by adding a `st:` (*stealth*) as prefix.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The new address format for the stealth meta-address is based on [ERC-3770](./eip-3770.md) and extends it by adding a `st:` (*stealth*) prefix.
```

> Thus, a stealth meta-address on Ethereum comes with the following format:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Thus, a stealth meta-address on Ethereum has the following format:
```

### Parsing considerations

Usually, the recipient of a stealth address transaction has to perform the following operations to check whether he was the recipient of a certain transaction:

- 2x ecMUL,

- 2x HASH,

- 1x ecADD,

The view tags approach is introduced to reduce the parsing time by around 6x. Users only need to perform 1x ecMUL and 1x HASH (skipping 1x ecMUL, 1x ecADD and 1x HASH) for every parsed announcement. The 1-byte view tag length is based on the maximum required space to reliably filter non-matching announcements. With a 1-byte `viewTag`, the probability for users to skip the remaining computations after hashing the shared secret $h(s)$ is $1/256$. This means that users can almost certainly skip the above three operations for any announcements that do not involve them. Since the view tag reveals one byte of the shared secret, the security margin is reduced from 128 bits to 124 bits. Notably, this only affects the privacy and not the secure generation of a stealth address.

---

## Rationale

> This EIP emerged from the need of having privacy-preserving ways to transfer ownership without disclosing any information to the recipients' identities. Token ownership can expose sensitive personal information. While individuals may wish to donate to a specific organization or country, they might prefer not to disclose a link between themselves and the recipient at the same time. Standardizing stealth address generation represents a significant step towards unlinkable interactions, since such privacy-enhancing solutions require standards to achieve widespread adoption. Consequently, it is crucial to concentrate on developing generalizable approaches for implementing related solutions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This EIP emerged from the need of having privacy-preserving ways to transfer ownership without disclosing any information about the recipients' identities. Token ownership can expose sensitive personal information. While individuals may wish to donate to a specific organization or country, they might prefer not to disclose a link between themselves and the recipient at the same time. Standardizing stealth address generation represents a significant step towards unlinkable interactions, since such privacy-enhancing solutions require standards to achieve widespread adoption. Consequently, it is crucial to concentrate on developing generalizable approaches for implementing related solutions.
```

> ### DoS Measures

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### DoS Countermeasures
```

> There are potential DoS attack vectors that are not mitigated by network transaction fees. Stealth transfer senders cause an externality for recipients, as parsing announcement events consumes computational resources that are not compensated with gas. Therefore, spamming announcement events _can_ be a detriment to the user experience, as it _can_ lead to longer parsing times. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are potential denial of service (DoS) attack vectors that are not mitigated by network transaction fees. Stealth transfer senders cause an externality for recipients, as parsing announcement events consumes computational resources that are not compensated with gas. Therefore, spamming announcement events _can_ be a detriment to the user experience, as it _can_ lead to longer parsing times. 
```
